# Prompt: Can there be an empirical *test* of realisim or antirealism?

Yes. An experiment could be constructed analyzing the history of all
scientific theories which were 'generally accepted' at some time. Then
taking each theory's 'postulated entities' and seeing if they were later
proven or disproven to exist. If proved, realisim receives a 'point', if
disproved antirealisim receives a 'point'. Totalling up all these points
throughout history would show in general which view is more 'correct'.

Of course this is just one metric of comparison, it does not have any
implication as to whether realisim, antirealism, or a debate over the two is
more conducive to the advancement of science. It should be noted that
verifying postulated entities is not 'observing' them in the sense of
philosophical sense. But observing them in the scientific sense. After
all this experiment seeks an empirical support for realisim or
antirealisim, so a scientific definition is appropriate.

We need to define a few things to make sense of this.  
What kind of realisim and antirealisim?  
What's a theory?  
What's generally accepted?  
What are 'postulated entities'?  
What does it mean to prove thier existance?   

## Theories

A theory is taken to be a scientific explanation of some phenomena,
which has reached a consensus among the scientific community. This is a
pretty soft definition, which leaves a lot of room for debate about
whether some fringe theory is agreed upon enough. This is especially
applicable to field with many open questions (e.g. string theory,
quantum gravity, dark matter, dark energy, etc.). But we don't need a
strict definition because there are plenty of theory for which there is
definately a consensus (general relativity, evolution, global warming,
etc.). We can use these theories like these as our data.

## Realisim and Antirealisim

We take the statement of realisim to be "the view that the world
described by science is the real world"; For antirealisim we take van
Fraassen's formulation "Science aims to give us theories which are
empirically adequate, and acceptance of a theory involves as belief only
that it is empirically adequate."[1][1] How can this be supported em

[1]: page 254, Science Rules

We take the statement of realisim to be "the view that the world
described by science is the real world" How can this be supported
empirically?

A theory cannot be proven in a strict sense, so it is impossible to show
that a theory actually describes the real world. However any theory can
be substantiated or disproven by experiment, whil. Antirealists such as
Duhem would say a thoroughly does not 'explain' the phenomena, meaning
that the theory does not account for the real world. So no amount of
empirical data could support a realist view. But antirealist and realist
could agree that a well substatiated theory is somehow more true than
one that is unsubstantiated, or falsified. So we cannot give a point to
realists when a theory is proven

If a theory; 

For antirealisim we take
Duhem's view, that which is addressable by science 

## Points 

The criteria in which points should be given is as follows. A point
should be given to realisim when a postulated entity is verified in the
scientific sense. 

Obviously, awarding a 'point' based on the success of theory,
is not ideal.  Since each theory's postulated entities have a certain
level of plausibility, and it may seem unfair to give a point to
Anti-realisim for [miasma][1], since it now seems so implausible.
However, the realisim antirealism discussion is in general terms, and
whether something exists in 'reality' or is a postulated entity, is
determined by it's observability. Not neccesarily the plausibility of
the postulated entity's existence. Plausibility and observability are
related, but distinct. Observability refers to ability to observe
something using natural senses, plausibility refers to likelyhood of
existence in the context of surrounding scientific theories. So I think
awarding points per theory is acceptable, because the realisim
antirealism debate aknowledges the observability of an object rather
than its plausability. 

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miasma_theory_of_disease "Miasma theory"


## Postulated entities

A postulated entity is part of a theory that is not verified,
but this entity is what causes the phenomena the theory is supposed to
explain. For example the [luminiferous aether][1], [gravitational
field][2], or [caloric][3]. These unobservable by definition, because if
they were observable, then they would be verifiable and not postulated.
A postulated entity can become obsolete if its theory is falsified, or
if another entity is postulated which better explains the phenomena and
the new gains scientific consensus in the community. 

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luminiferous_aether  "Luminiferous eather"
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravitational_field#Classical_mechanics "Gravitational field"
[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caloric_theory       "Caloric theory"


## Implications 

If we were to gather a list of past theories our data would probably be
biased toward successful ones. Because when a theory is superseeded it
is more likely to be forgotten, and no longer taught.  With this in
mind, it would seem that almost all postulated entities throughout
history have been modified as experimental techniques improved, or
replaced by a competing theory. It does not seem so suprising to think
that almost all historical theories have had disproven postulated
entities. This would skew our score largely in favor of antirealisim.
But many historical theories are the predecessors to modern ones, and
served as useful stepping stones to a more modern successful theory. It
seems unfair to discredit such a theory which would have been
insturmental in creating a more true theory. However in such a case the
realists insistance on the reality of a postulated entity. Would be
incorrect, strictly speaking. 

Given these considerations it seem that our experiment would be in favor
of the antirealist for decent data set. 

actually imply? 
