# 1.
    Descartes' methodology, and therefore his physics, is largely not empirical. He
beleived that one could only arrive at "true knowledge" through deduction, saying
"One ought to seek [...] what we can clearly and evidently intuit or deduce with
certainty." (pg 49). Among the things Descartes considered *certain* was the
existence of God; So it played a sizeable role in deducing his physics.

    God's role in Descartes physics is illucidated in several of his physical
laws. For instance he described a conservation law for what he calls "quantity
of motion".  Which must be conserved because the initial quantity of motion was
created by God, so it must be perfect, and therefore that quantity must persist
unchanged.  This law was clearly not tested empirically tested, because by
Descartes definition of it is not conserved. In his second law of motion he
gives an emperical example, namely a stone in a sling with an incorrect
description of the stones rectilenear motion. Despite this, he offers a proof
based on the immutibility of god. Showing that he would rather rely on god than
on emperical examples. Descartes was well aware of the emperical limits of his
laws saying that they are only meant to apply to bodies which are simple and
undivided bodies. 

    Descartes rationalisim is well founded because his emperical justifications
are often wrong. However his deductions to certain knowledge were often just as
problematic. 


# 2.
    Keplers' laws have clear definite expressions in terms of Newtonian dynamics.
However Newton also gave a Kepler's laws a quantitative causal basis. Previously
Kepler gave qualitative assertions that the motion was related to magnetism.

    The relatio between the Four rules and is actual practice is ambiguous 
because Newton created and changed them throughout editions of Principia. They
did not exist in the first edition, and were instead part of his hypothesis. When
they were introduced in the second edition without the fourth rule. Since the
rules were not introduced alongside Newtons physics, it is easy to assume that he
made up the rules after the fact. Perhaps along the line of his actual practice.
This seems especially relevant to rule 3 which seems to be introduced exclusively
so that he can say that gravity effects everything in the universe.
                                                                                      
    Rule four was introduced in the fourth edition to validate induction against
any unverified hypotheses (pg 101). This seems to be a response to people
critiques of Principia where they used unverified hypotheses. This would imply
that Newton was not actually practicing this rule explicitly, or he would have
written it down previously. Although he was probably aware of what made a
hypotheses good and bad, and justly avoided the bad one. 

# 3.
    Newton explicity defines hypothesis "Hypothesis is here used by me to 
signify only such a Proposition as is not a Phaenomenon nor deduced from any 
Phaenomena but assumed or or supposed without any experimental proof." (pg 107)
Here he is defining Hypothesis in the context of the phrase "Hypothesis non
fingo" and it is largely in line with how we define hypothesis today. However
when Newton uses the word hypothesis, he means it in a pejorative way,
because he beleived that extraneous hypotheses were harmful, and could lead
scientists astray of the truth.

    This is what Newton means by saying he does not *frame* hypotheses. He means
that he does not create and use superflusous hypotheses when they are not needed.
He means he does not create hypotheses without prior evidence, in the same way
someone in court could be framed when there is a lack of evidence. Or to explain
things for which there is no evidence for. Newton is using *frame* in a pjorative
way. Implying that extraneous hypotheses could be harmful, and might lead people
astray of the truth.

    newton is not saying he does not use hypotheses, because he clearly does in
several places through out principia, but he would not have considered these
framed. the place where newton's reluctance to *frame* hypotheses is in the cause
of gravity. this is where he makes the statement "hypotheses non fingo", because
he has no idea or evidence as to the cause of gravity, so he will not frame a
hypotheses for the cause of gravity. so here, newton's injunction has the force
of avoiding speculation on his part. 


#4. 
    In Whewell's account of the 'purely inductive' formulation of scientific laws
he implies that the 
