Lucid presentation of a position, then a critique of said position, then give reasons to
accept this critique.


1. Sketch the nature of Duhem's antirealism; what does he take to be
unacceptably 'metaphysical' and why? Why doees he think the aim of science is
not to explain? What does he mean by 'natural classification', and how does it
fit into his account of the progress of science?

What Duhem regards as adressable by is science he calls 'sensible
appearences', these are observable physical phenomena. This is dinguished from
'material reality' which underlies the appearences. This material reality is
unobservable, by Duhem's definition, so it cannot be probed empirically.
Since science is must be emperical it cannot determine the nature of this
unobservable reality. This material reality is considered to metaphysical
because its features transced science. 

To Duhem, science is not for explanations or causes of phenomena, it is for
the representing of phenomena 'with as much economy as possible'[1]

Theories which postulate entities that cannot be seen with our own eyes, or
felt with our own fingers are proposing a reality that is not accessible to
the senses. Then the theory is content with proving that all perceptions ar
eproduced *as if* the reality were what it asserts.o

Duhem asserts that science cannot explain what is beyond sensible appearences
because it must first answer 2 questions: Does a material reality exist beyond
sensible appearences? And what is the nature of the material reality? Duhem
claims these questions 'do not have their source in expiremental method'[2]
therefore they cannot be addressed by science.

Duhem justifies the usefulness of theories as natural classifications (since
they are not explenations.) This is the grouping, and categorizing of phyical
theories. The more complete a theory is, the better categorized it can
be. This classification give theories an economy of thought, and makes them
easier to understand. As Science progresses, theories become more developed
and classifications become more complete. A clear thorough classification can
lead scientists to believe any postulated entities which are used in natural
classification are true explantions. However, this is not provable. Therefore
outside of science.[3]

Duhem thinks we cannot escape natural classification. 

Summarizing and classification is not a form of *explanation*. According to
Duhem. 

Why is it better to be a realist or antirealist? 

The more a integrated and classified a theory is, the less we can avoid
thinking that said theory is the *truth*. Which should not have anything to do
with science. 

Duhem think maybe we think the theory is getting more true, because it
actually is, but he cannot say that because it conflicts with his views on
science.

[1] pg 254 
[2] pg 261
[3] middle of pg 275


2. What is van Fraassen's 'constructive empiricism', and how does it differ
from other types of anti-realism? Does it give a successful reconstruction of
the aim of science? How does he draw the boundary between observable and
unobservable, and is he right in so doing?

    VF's Constructive empericism is formulated as "Science aims
to give us theories which are empirically adequate; and acceptance of a theory
involves as belief only that it is empirically adequate" This formulation of
antirealism differs from others in that it does not adress unobservables, it
chooses the Null hypothesis for unobservables. Accepting a theory does not
imply the acceptance of postulated unobservables, only that the theory
explains everything that is empirically verifiable.

    His line between unob and observ is peculiar. and different from other AR.
But what is more important in AR. His aim of science is increasing empirical
adequacy, making theories that are confirmed better with experiment. compared
with other AR which is to provide true or approximately trueaccount of the
world, is this a R approach?

    He thinks scientists should ask not, is science getting more true. but is
it getting more empirically adequate. 

For bdd betweenn ob an unob see pg 290
    

4. How does Feyerabend reconstruct Galileo's procedure in refuting the
arguments for a moving earth? Is his reconstruction plausible, or does it
misrepresent Galileo's aims, methods and success?

Feyerabend (F) reconstructs Galileo's procedure as proliferation. 
