# Perrin's realism: Salmon
## pages 312-326

I did the wrong reading for today...

This section is strongly based on (who's?) determination of Avagadro's
number. But we will not go into the math (lame).

We need to work with a finite set of possibilities. We need to restrict
the range of hypotheses when testing things. 

Stuff about QED. Light is both a wave and a particle so philosophers
were both right and wrong debating about it. 

Descartes thought you could model light as particulate. What is
important about this is that he was using a model for it. A model which
was impossible for him to verify. He reconstructed the phenomena in
terms he could understand. But was he actually saying that light is made
out of particulate pieces. 

Lord Kelvin thought that you had to have a relatable model to understand an
associated theory. However for somethings this is not really possible
such as quantum mechanics. 

There are some ideas in science which simply are not relatable to things
we are familiar with. Such as the statistical phenomena of quantum
mechanics. There is no mechanical analog to the randomness which comes
from QM. 

Why be a realist?

Is there any way to argue that you should be a realist?
Duhem's conclusion: antirealism, because there is no thorough way to know
that things actually are the way you claim they are. 


## To recap:
Duhem thinks there is a psychological compulsion to be a realist. Because
it is just the sort of things humans tend to do. 

Your choice of metaphysics is just that, a choice. 

instrumentalisim, positivisim is another form of antirealism. 

## Something else...
One way to think about this is to think "are two theories generally
distinct" 

T1 is different if under certain conditions it gives you separate
predictions from T2. 

Heisenberg's matrix mechanics, vs Schrodingers wave mechanics. GR vs
Newtonian mechanics. 

### Cool:
Ernst Mach did away with absolute-privileged reference frames in Newtonian
mechanics.

## Discernable theories
If two theories are not discernable, then there is no way to tell which
of them are actually real. Since there is no way to tell them apart. If
you are choosing one theory then you are not doing physics. 

## What is really at issue:
Anti-realisim commits you to less. So it seems to be the more reasonable
position. 

## Van Frassen's Antirealisim:
### pg 281
He states on pg 288 that he is doing this against the background of
Maxwell. Dichotomy of theory vs observation.

More pg 288 Maxwell wants to deny that a distinction of this sort (what
sort?) pg 289 example of theories existing in language about the sun
'rising' and 'setting'

Two things here, the distinction Frassen makes between *observing* and
*observing that* example: X observes Y, X observes that Y. The former
X under stands the context in which it is seeing Y. The latter X does
not under stand the context that Y is in. The point is that we may be
interpreting everything we see with theories we hold true.

Van Frassen argues that surely somethings that some people see in the
same way and in the same context.

Realist and antirealist will agree there is a difference between the
the nature of things that are observed and things that are theorized.
But how would you distinguish and *observation*
What is observable, Maxwell thinks that there is no clear distinction on

what we can see. e.g. what if we had electron micrscope eyes.

Frassen tries to set a clear distinction between what is observable and
what is not 

Hankinson gets a call:

"Can you call me back... I'm in the middle of a class." *hangs up phone*
"Sorry that was my son. He is wholely unreliable and irresponsible so I
have to leave my phone on."

>"X is observable if there are circumstances which are such that, if X
>is present to us under those circumstances, then we observe it."

Are scientific instruments advanced ways of seeing things. There is this
continuum of observation. With more and more advanced instruments. 

More on Salmon next time. 

What if there was a mouse in your house, but you never saw it, it just
ate your cheese and made lil noises but all attempts to find the mouse were
thwarted. What if instead some joker with a high degree of technical
competence is just trying to freak me out.

Infering that you have a mouse is a good inference if... You make an
observation of the mouse. u

Van Frassen thinks that things have to be observed to infer to the
existence of something. 
