# Feyerabend
Is the only reasnoable method in science anarchisim? How much does he 
really mean this? The key crucial claims these people make.

## 
Certain ways of looking at the world carry implicit commitments, about 
the underlying way in which the world works. 

## Tower argument
uses readily available evindence to show there is no movement of the 
earth. 

## Kuhn 
Normal science ends a crisis begins, when a hypothesis' anamonlies pile
up. 

G is represented as trying to undermine the science of the time. By
trying to show that a stone falling along a tower does not validate a
stationary earth.

There is already a operative notion of relative motion. G was trying to
show this to people. Stone falling from tower, or off mast of ship, or
pen in man's hand on ship, or seeing the moon following you. 

G wants to level the playing field, by remind people about these ideas
of relative motion. 

G had a crappy theory about tides. G is an intelectual hero to
Feyerabend. Because G does proliferation. Proliferate hypotheses to
reveal the underlying considerations people have. 

### Pg 386 section 7
F says G's idea is absurd. but it is not. F says G is intentionally
lying but he is not. G is persuasive, but he is not lying. F is saying G
is basically making stuff up. But G probably would not say he is doing
that. 

In F's view theory change happens when you introduce some crap theory 
then protect it and nuture it to see how far it can spread. 

G gives a nice close analog to the law of inertia, in terms of things
rolling up or down planes.

One more F thing. It is true our language includes ancient scientific
commitments 
> The sun rises and sets
But we can say this and not believe the things the language implies.
Most of us are convinced post copernicans.

Invent things that are against the popular theory.

Still things about F. 

Read proliferation 1, 2, & 3 on page 389 -- 391

What are the limits on creating a new theory?
Create new theories just to test the popular theory. If there are no
constraints on proliferation then any new random hypothesis will
probably not be true, although it is possible.

## Chapter 22 
What F seems to be doing is a rejection of Newton's rule 4.

## Kuhn
In order to interpret visual evidence in a certain way we use previously
known things. Oops not time yet.

What an aristotelian see in a pendulum is an object in constrained fall.
Galileo would see it differently. 

### Bottom pg 393
Implications of achinsteins analysis. Generalize N's claim, imagine
somethnig as probable, 

G is not getting us to accept something new. He is asking us to imagine
a new reason for why things are. 
