# Galileo's tower argument. Rejection of universal rules and method.

Instead of talking about what is real and what is not. We will address
wether the scientific method exists at all, wether or not it is
universal.

## What did Galileo do to piss off the church so much.

By the time he was doing astronomy he was a convinced copernican
(believed in the heliocentric model). 

Copernicus did not emphasize the heliocentricity of his model. Only that
it was a more effective calculating device. 

The church ruled that he was only allowed to talk about the copernican
model in limited terms. So he wrote a *dialogue* between two people. In
which one man convinced another of the copernican model.

### G's tower argument:
If the earth is rotating why doesn't a ball dropped from a tower fly
hundreds of yards away. 

This does not happen when something is dropped the top of the mast of a
ship. The thing falls down along the mast. 

G was a good arguer.

## What the hell is Hankinson talking about.

H: Did I mention epicycles?

Student: Yes.

H: So epicycles are blah blah blah

## This section of the book is supposed to deal with Feyerabend (F)

H: Lets carry on with this.

## There is no evidence that G actuall dropped stuff off a tower.

But he still claimed that Aristotle was wrong, and that if he did do
something like this he would have been correct.

One thing he did actually do, he made various inclined planes. If you
ever go to the Florence, go to the history of science museum. There are
never a lot of people there. It is the place that has the bones from
Galileo's right hand. 
