# Mill's account

M says the process of arriving at a hypothesis is not a random one.

Gallileo, D, and N want to move away for vacuous explainations for the causes of
things like gravity. Opium example: Why does opium make you sleepy? Because it
has a narcotic effect. 

Maybe we shouldn't be worried about the causes of things. 

W focuses on how N's theory allows us to connect seemingly independent phenomena. 

W says it not enough to group similar phenomena, but grouping disperate phenomena
is a sure indication of a good theory. 

## Chapter 8. Of The Four Methods of Experimental Inquiry.

Counterfactual condition.

Mill is trying to isolate counterfactual condition with his method of difference.

What is induction? pg 175 and pg 177. Mill's definition. The important thing of
an induction is that it should license something additional.

To Mill an induction cannot just conjoin induvidual facts. 

Mill's issue with W is a terminological issue. W describes induction as something
that does not necessarilly give a more general expression of facts. M thinks
Kepler describing the orbit of the planets as an elipse is not induction. 

## The cannons

### The first cannon, the cannon of agreement.
If 2 or more instances of the phenomenon under investigation have only one
circumstance in common, the circumstance in which alone all the instances agree
is the cause (or effect) of the given phenomenon.

An example about AIDS.

### The second cannon.
Af an instance in which the phenomenon under investigation occurs, and an
instance in which it does not occur, have every circumstance in common save one,
that one occuring only in the former; the circumstance in which alone the two
instances differ is the effect, or the cause, or an indispensable part of the
cause, of the penomenon.

If you have an effect, then suppress one of the causes and the effect goes away,
that must have been a cause of the observed effect.

### Third Canon

