# Stuff About Hypotheses of Wave and Particle Theory.
Achinstein section.
Whewell and Mill still...
Whewell is confident that you can be certain about a theory. If his 
concillience conditions are met. He thought this about Newtonian
dynamics. Mill thought a theory could only be certain if there was a
perfect deduction to it. 
Rabble rabble rabble.

Skipping the last section which includes the probability.
Rabble rabble rabble.

## Anti realisim.
Scientific theories describe the world in words that are either true or
false.

### Realisim vs Antirealisim. 
Realists think that theories actually describe what is actually
happening. Antirealist think the theory is only a tool to describe the
data and make predictions.

A metaphysical claim is something that is not subject to empirical
verifications. 

... Configuring my a socks proxy through one of the physics servers
because I ran out of bandwidth surfing the internet in this class...

Back to lecture. Descartes... Protons, electrons, neutrons...

A core antirealist idea is that all we are doing is making successive
generalizations about phenomena. Ernst Mach late 19th century
antirealist. 

ooohhh Mach did something cool. He wanted strip away all the absolutes
from Newtonian physics, such as absolute space, absolute speed. aka
absolute reference frames. This inspired Einstein. 

 Some of Mach's criticisms of Newton's position on space and time
influenced Einstein, but later Einstein realized that Mach was basically
opposed to Newton's philosophy and concluded that his physical criticism
was not sound. -- Mach's wikipedia

Mach considered the importance of science to be the *economy of
thought*. We develop theories to make descriptions of the phenomena
easier to learn and teach. 
