# Duhem's antirealism

We should in theory go through this article in order today. Duhem wrote
a good history a science. 

It's fine to use Copernicus as long as you don't actually believe that
the universe works that way. Said the church.

Ernst Mach said that theories are only useful because the make thought
more economical. And that any predictions, actually come out of
observations not the theory.

Minimun antirealist would say true and false only pertain to real
measurable things. True and False cannot be applied to theory?

For example the concept of an atom, in 19th century *atom* started
taking on it's current meaning. (name?) noticed that some chemical
reactions always involved whole number ratios... (Moving on to some other
thing... Back to this.) Atoms! these ratios implied, made it natural to
think about, that the chemicals were made up of whole numbers of small
bits of things. This may turn out to be true, very true. If we continue
to develop on this theory successfully. Like if it makes predictions, or
explains other areas of science. Does this success actually imply that
atoms exist? Or is it just a useful predictive tool.  The anti-realist
would say you do not need to think that atoms are actually real and that
you should not. 

For the ch 298 don't bother with the maths. Hankinson will not dwell on
this stuff. 

## Duhem asks "what is physics for?"

For explanation? 
Explanation has many definitions in science. One is that theories only
are there to help us derive physical phenomena. 

The only thing Duhem will not do, is say that Newton's laws explain the
phenomena. But this is due to a matter of taste as to what the word
*explain* means.

An anti-realist would say that it makes sense to represent Newtonian
theory inside a more general set of theories. But he would not say that
because Newtonian theory is explicative of nature, it has gotten us
closer to the truth.

Anti-realist would say that all these improving theories about
everything are just more and more economical ways of representing
things. And that this is all that is necessary to say. 

pg 259 Acoustic theory about strings and such. There is a difference
about acoustic theory because it is actually physically senseable (you
can sense it). The fact that it is directly observable.

Should Galileo's observations of the sky account for the observability
condition of anti-realists(AR)? Not easy. Some AR would account for the
observation condition with telescopic observation, others would account
for it with microscopic observation. Some AR would discredit both of
these methods as unreliable observations. 

Adequacy conditions. 

The vibratory theory of light is... Wrong sort of. 

Michelson Morely experiment. No detection of the ether.

Something interesting!!! Lorentz believed the ether theory and to explain
why MM experiment did not detect the theory, he proposed that a length
contraction occurs to objects that are moving through the ether. Lorentz
proposed:

* The body contracts in the line of motion and preserves its dimension
perpendicularly to it.
* The dimension of the body remains the same in the line of motion, but it
expands perpendicularly to it.
* The body contracts in the line of motion, and expands at the same time
perpendicularly to it.

It is frequently thought that MM's null result motivated Einstein. At
one time he declined this another time he confirmed. But relativity does
away with the necessity of an ether. 

## Relativistic orbit of Mercury. 
Mercury was behaving strangely, if Newton was correct, and we had a good
account of all the major bodies in the system, then it should not have
been moving that way. 

One proposal was the hypothetical existence of Vulcan. Which was very
near Sol, and dragged Mercury around. This was sensible because someone
had recently predicted that Neptune existed because it was effecting the
orbit of Uranus. 

Eventually not finding Vulcan became a problem, but this was fixed
eventually by relativity. 

So the moral of the story is that there is not a general way to explain
away anomalies. The Uranus explanation did not apply to Mercury. So
despite the Success of N's laws, they failed here.  

GR predicts a bending effect of light around massive objects. 

N's laws did not *not* predict the bending of light, N believed in a
particulate light, probably with mass, so he might have expected it to
bend. 

"Why was I... Talking... About any of that..."
-Hankinson

History of science, not much philosophy.

Duhem thinks we have a physcological compulsion to actually believe that
accurate successful theories are real. But we can't help it. And it is
not helpful as physicist to think these things. 
## What is metaphysics.

Everything other than something.  

