# Feyerabend

F does not have a problem with scientific progress. He is trying to
say that scientific progress come about from strict adherence to a
method. Ordinary ways to understand scientific progress are generally
mistaken. The only operative rule in science is 

> Anything goes.

The only way to advance science is by inventing things adlib. By
breaking Newton's fourth rule. By proliferating theories contrary to the
mainstream ideas. Coming up with a theory in a drunken stupor is
perfectly valid as a touchstone for coming up with new ideas. 

This is a reaction against the climate in philosophy of science brought
by logical constructivisim(?) 

Nomic subsumption, a set of phenomena can be seen as a consequence of
the law in question. 

The only way to liberate ourselves from the belief that we can only
advance science is through a strict method. Is there actually a
scientific method. F's discontent is with Scientific method.

##pg 372

If you assert that there is a rule on how to advance science, looking at
history  will prove you wrong. It is good scientists have not tried to
adhere strictly to a rule because it would stop science from advancing. 

## Kuhn

What K notices is that when questions are asked, ...?

Predicted vals don't match experimental results. Anomalies.
What to do about anomalies? 

## Back to what F is trying to do

pg 273

By rationalist he means science is a rule governed activity.
With which he contrasts genuine empiricism, someone who only believes
the data. 

F asserts that you must sometimes con someone, or even lie to them (in
the extreme) to convince people. To proliferate your theory. Hankinson
thinks this is wrong. F thinks Galileo does this though. He points out
when he is being subversive and not relying solely on logic in the tower
argument.  

G: people believe that certain sorts of motion are in fact relative.

Is the Mediterranean really 500 miles across?

The moon is following me. G's example of apparent observation of motion
to show that perception of motion can be incorrect. 

Presuppositions should be reconsidered sometimes. F is saying that
proliferation can drive people to reconsider these things. 
