# Continue Mill Whewell Debate.

There were attempts to modify the particulate theory of light and these
made the theory even more cumbersome.

If these theories are actually physically realized entities, then they
cannot be only partially true.

Mill is concerned with, sort of, discerning correlation from causation.
We can determine the difference in things like this by seeing if the
effect ever occurs without the cause. Mill has a method for determining
causation versus correlation called the *method of difference*. 

Mill wants to say that Newton's law of gravitation is a causal law, but
not in a way that it results from mechanical action...?

## Models
Caloric theory of heat... Atoms... Kinetic theory of heat...

## Mill on hypotheses
He takes agrees with Whewell with the meaning of *vera causa*. Modeling
the

## Reductionisim.
For example reducing the phenomenon of pressure to molecular energy. Or
heat to mean molecular kinetic energy. 

We are talking about this to contrast the theory of gases to what is
happening with Newton. Namely the hypothesis of molecular behavior, is
something that appeals to known causal phenomenon. But in Newton's
gravitation there is no cause. 

So we shouldn't be constrained by models of which we have direct
evidence for the cause. 

pg.222 *important point* section 6
Hypothesizing about new causes. 

Luminiferous ether, it is a postulated substance, like D's vortical
substance, which is supposed to be the medium for the propagation of
light. It was created to explain the *cause* of the wave theory of
light. It has to very rare so as to not impede the precession of the
planets. This was disproven by the Michaelson-moorley experiment. 

Descartes vorticies would be practical if they were predictive, but they
are not. So all the vorticies theory does is redescribe things. Newtons
theory is different because it does not try to explain what causes it
but it is predictive.

We will really finish up mill next time, how we can have both a wave
particle theory. Then Achinstein.
