# Perrin, what's at issue.
The difference between realisim and antirealisim. 

What would you naturally suppose to be the case about existence claims.
???

Duhem to which we are swayed to believe realisim by the effectivness of
the science is...

Of course if a theory is successful, we assume it is real. Then we are
inclined to suppose that the entities in the theory are real things...

mammals reptiles...?

Metaphysical realist, things exist independent of the theories.

Antirealist, you should not even ask whether these things exists.

Both views go beyond the neutral ontological attitude about what the
theory entails.

Do molecules exist? Could be construed in two ways. 

Do they exist internally, in a theory? Do they exist externally, in reality.

This is an unanswerable question.

## General discussion
Feynman's remark:
>The term electron figures centrally in theories with a high degree of
>confirmation. So we can almost think of them as being real things.

What we mean by *real* is that they figure centrally into verified
theories. 

Is this antirealist or neutral.

## Salmon
We need to determine what we *mean* when we say atoms are real.

Salmon offers a reconstruction of Perrin's argument. 

The cross verification of Avagadro's number is extensive. 

Hankinson describes the measurments of Na.

### What does Na represnt
Reads excerpt about how different measurements verify Na.
The intuitive presentation of what is going on is important, many people
previously thought that atoms were only a useful model. But the many
findings confirming Na changed their minds.

So there is no question to ask whether they work. They do. 

The probability of atoms existing borders on 1. 

## Neutral Ontological attitude.
Mentioned by Atchensteine on pg 342. Check wikipedia.

## ?

The conclusion of the antirealist is that theories are empirically
adequate. Any AR can do the same thing as a R without making claims
about what is actually *real*. So could empirical evidence for realisim
save the realists claims. 

A good illustration Salmon gives. What is coal and diamond were
pulverized, it is plausible that you would not end up with the same
stuff. 

The important point of all this. 

Multiplicity rejection, there are more hypothesis that could
explain the data. The underdetermination of theory by data.

Duhem-quine thesis.

## Secondary Lunar Light
What lights up the dark part of the moon. Galileo chooses 5 theories to
explain it, he eliminates 4 of these and then decides the remaining one
must be true. The secondary light is caused by light reflecting off the
earth. 

Not re-reflected light from Venus, or Stars...

Or weak internal light inside of the moon... LOL
this is disputed by the fact that it is gone during a lunar eclipse. 

Hankinson hypothesizes that it is caused by glow worms crawling about on
the surface of the moon... LOL

## The limits of experience objection pg 336
Best AR. 

By observing nature we can only make claims about what is observable. 

### Van Frassens version
Experience can only tell us about what is observable. 

VF said something weird, what we see through telescopes is real, what we
see through microscopes cannot be confirmed to be real. 

How far are observability arguments extendable?



## Why isn't everyone an antirealist?
Why is there a divergence between empirical observation and what really
is? This is sort of what realists are clinging too. But AR responds it
still could differ and it does not matter if it does. 

The extreme AR claim is that we can't make sense of the outside world. 

R and AR are just talking past each other. 

## ?
General constraint on inductive generalization. A are similar in some
way to B, can I say that all A's are B's? You can't always. What if
there is some biasing in your choice of A's and B's. 

You could say that AR can't really know anything.

# Next class, NO CLASS!!
Read Galileo's refutation of tower argument, rejection of universal
rules. Pages pg 355 - 389 before next Tuesday. 
